News of 14/01/2025 :

# Global EV sales surge 25% in 2024, led by China
Rho Motion reported China sales jumped 40%, with the US and Canada seeing steady growth of 9%. Threats to cut the federal EV tax credit imperil EV sales growth.
Global electric vehicle and plug-in electric vehicle (PHEV) sales hit a record in 2024 as booming growth in China and other parts of the world made up for weakness in Europe.

EV and battery research firm Rho Motion reported that global electrified vehicle sales jumped 25% to 17.1 million units sold. China led the way, with 40% growth and 11 million units sold.

“After the record-breaking year in 2023 for EV sales we entered 2024 with some optimism about the market despite headwinds,” Rho Motion data manager Charles Lester wrote in a statement. “While overall the global market has boomed, growing by a quarter over the year, the regional disparities have also grown. Europe’s market has shrunk 3% and China's [has] grown by 40%.”

Incentives such as government trade-in programs and the product prowess of BYD (1211.HK), which had over 40 models on sale, helped boost China sales, Rho Motion said. China growth came from PHEVs too, which had 81% growth last year compared to BEV (battery electric vehicle) growth of 19%. BYD primarily makes PHEV vehicles.

The Chinese market for EV and PHEV makers is paramount. In China, BYD is dominating, Volkswagen (VWAGY) and GM (GM) are struggling, and Tesla (TSLA) is poised to grow.

According to a local EV data tracker, Tesla’s Model Y was the best-selling car in China last year, selling nearly 480,000 units. In another bullish sign for Tesla and the Chinese market, the face-lifted Model Y (dubbed “Juniper” internally) saw 50,000 preorders on Monday’s launch day, per a Chinese news report.

The US and Canada saw record EV sales of 1.8 million units, resulting in 9% growth year over year, which is consistent with the region’s 10% or so approximate growth, per Rho Motion.

Meanwhile, Europe saw sales drop 3% in 2024, though regionally, there are differences, with Rho noting that the UK saw growth with 400,000 units sold, while Germany reversed lower.

Lester added that what is clear is that government “carrots and sticks” are working.

“In North America, the 9% growth can mostly be attributed to consumer subsidies and over in the UK, the ZEV [zero emission vehicle] mandate has highly incentivized manufacturers to push their low emission cars,” Lester said. “Meanwhile the removal of subsidies in Germany had a devastating impact on the whole European market, if the US follows suit, we may see the same there.”

Rho predicted the EV market in the US will be tested in 2025 by the incoming Trump administration's threat of reversing the EPA emission standards or EV tax credit. Easing emission regulations and removing the federal EV tax credit makes purchasing gas-powered vehicles more attractive.


# The Trump campaign pledges that already look harder than promised

There can be a big difference between solving problems in a campaign speech and solving them once you’re in office.

On an array of issues — from grocery prices to Ukraine to immigration to the deficit — the president-elect and his close allies already appear to be hedging on clear-cut promises that they made again and again (and which Donald Trump often said would be simple fixes) as complex realities now intervene.

Perhaps nowhere has the divide been more stark than on the core issue in last year’s election: inflation. Specifically, prices at the grocery store.

"The doughnuts are going to come down, the food is going to come down," Trump said in his last campaign rally before the election, telling a story of a woman who couldn’t afford three apples. "That should not be happening, and we aren't going to have it happen long," he said.

But it was a very different message in a Nov. 25 interview with Time published last month.

"It's hard to bring things down once they're up," he said of grocery prices, discussing challenges like supply chain issues. "You know, it's very hard."

Fiscal issues that Trump and his aides are tacking on
Trump’s allies are also pivoting on some of the campaign’s promises. A key recent example is Elon Musk, the co-head of Trump’s new extra-governmental Department of Government Efficiency.

Last fall, during a rally in Madison Square Garden, the Tesla (TSLA) CEO pledged to cut "at least" $2 trillion out of the US government’s $6+ trillion annual budget.

It raised eyebrows with budget experts and many others who noted that the entire annual US discretionary budget is just $1.7 trillion, meaning Musk would almost surely need to dip into social safety net programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security to accomplish his goals.

Musk, who acknowledged from the start that his effort could lead to "temporary hardship," has now backtracked. In a recent interview with political strategist Mark Penn, he said that the $2 trillion figure was a "best-case outcome" and that perhaps more realistically he had a "good shot" at cutting half of that.

Immigration is another topic where complicated realities appear to be intruding.

During the campaign, Trump again and again promised mass deportations and a reordering of the immigration system.

That still appears to be coming, starting with a wave of immigration-themed executive orders planned for his first day in office. But Trump and his team appear to also be preparing Americans for the fact that they may not feel changes immediately.

In a recent Meet the Press interview, the president-elect hedged slightly when asked about his promises to deport everyone in the country illegally over his coming term — saying, “It’s a very tough thing to do.”

And a recent CNN report outlined how incoming “border czar” Tom Homan has already been privately tempering Republican lawmaker expectations about the initial deportation operation, citing limited resources.

A third area where Trump is also planning to move fast is energy, with a likely wave of day-one executive orders expected to focus on things like drilling access for companies and liquid natural gas exports.

But few expect him to fulfill his promise of cutting energy prices "in half" no matter how aggressive the moves are in the coming months.

Both the US government's Energy Information Administration and the International Energy Agency (IEA) have projected that US oil production could move up to 15 million barrels of oil a day in the coming years from current levels above 13 million barrels a day.

Such a move would be significant but would be unlikely to cut prices anywhere near what Trump has promised and would also seem to fall short of Treasury Secretary-designate Scott Bessent’s plan to increase oil production by the equivalent of 3 million barrels per day.

(Bloomberg) -- Stocks lost steam on Tuesday, with Wall Street investors unwilling to make any riskier bets as they awaited key inflation data for clues on path of Federal Reserve rates over the next few months.

Most Read from Bloomberg

These Homes Withstood the LA Fires. Architects Explain Why

A Blueprint for Better Bike Lanes

As E-Bikes Boom in NYC, Some Call for More Regulations

In the run-up to Wednesday’s consumer price index, the S&P 500 gave up an earlier advance that came on the heels of a surprise slowdown in wholesale prices. Options traders are bracing for the equity gauge’s busiest CPI day since March 2023. The index is expected to move 1% in either direction on Jan. 15, based on the cost of at-the-money puts and calls, according to Stuart Kaiser at Citigroup Inc.

“All eyes are now on Wednesday’s CPI report, which may be the most important inflation reading in recent memory, as it will fuel the market’s Fed-obsessed sentiment,” said Chris Brigati at SWBC. “A strong inflation number adds to this idea of no cuts in 2025, and potentially even a rate hike, while a weak inflation data point may help to calm the market’s Fed fears.”

US wholesale inflation unexpectedly cooled in December, helped by a drop in food costs and flat services prices that may help temper concerns of lingering price pressures. Several of its components that feed into the Fed’s preferred inflation measure — the personal consumption expenditures price gauge — were mixed in December.

“This means the Fed and markets will not benefit from particularly benign PPI inputs into PCE as was the case in November,” said Krishna Guha at Evercore. “In the very near term, this leaves markets exposed (in both directions) to Wednesday’s CPI report.”

The S&P 500 fell 0.4%. The Nasdaq 100 slid 0.4%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 0.2%. A gauge of the “Magnificent Seven” megacaps slipped 0.8%. The Russell 2000 rose 0.3%. Boeing Co. dropped 2.9% on news it delivered the fewest jets last year since the pandemic. Eli Lilly & Co. sank 8% amid disappointing sales. Homebuilders jumped after KB Home’s earnings beat.

The yield on 10-year Treasuries increased one basis point to 4.79%. The dollar slipped after Bloomberg News reported Donald Trump’s incoming economic team is considering gradual hikes in tariffs, helping avoid an inflation spike.

US wholesale inflation unexpectedly cooled in December, helped by a drop in food costs and flat services prices that may help temper concerns of lingering price pressures. Several of its components feed into the Fed’s preferred inflation measure — the personal consumption expenditures price gauge. Those categories were mixed in December.

“This means the Fed and markets will not benefit from particularly benign PPI inputs into PCE as was the case in November,” said Krishna Guha at Evercore. “In the very near term this leaves markets exposed (in both directions) to Wednesday’s CPI report.”

Underlying US inflation probably cooled only a touch at the close of 2024 against a backdrop of a resilient job market and steadfast economy, supporting the Fed’s go-slow approach to further rate cuts.

“Market reaction in the bond market was relatively muted, but we are expecting a wider range of outcomes following tomorrow’s release on the latest consumer price data,” said Charlie Ripley at Allianz Investment Management.

To Ian Lyngen at BMO Capital Markets, the theme in the Treasury market will be one of consolidation, and he says he’d be wary of a grind marginally higher in yields in the absence of any other tradable events.

Wall Street is also gearing up for the unofficial start of the earnings season, with results from big banks hitting the tape on Wednesday. Lenders including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. are expected to show continued gains from trading and investment banking, which helped offset net interest income declines caused by higher deposits and sluggish loan demand.

“When it comes to big-bank earnings, net interest income is the key data point to watch,” Brigati said. “If banks have been able to take advantage of borrowing at cheaper rates versus their loan portfolio, this is a constructive sign for the coming year.”

Corporate Highlights:

Southwest Airlines Co. is pausing hiring for management, headquarters jobs and outside workers in a new round of cost cuts following a fight with activist shareholder Elliott Investment Management.

Units of CVS Health Corp., Cigna Group and UnitedHealth Group Inc. charged significantly more than the national average acquisition cost on dozens of specialty generic drugs, bringing in more than $7.3 billion in excess revenue over six years, the Federal Trade Commission said in a report on the drug middlemen.

B. Riley Financial Inc. received more demands for information from federal regulators about its dealings with now-bankrupt Franchise Group as well as a personal loan for Chairman and co-founder Bryant Riley.

Capital One Financial Corp. misled customers when it rolled out a new savings account with a higher interest rate it didn’t also give to existing savings accounts, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said Tuesday in a lawsuit against the bank.

United Rentals Inc. agreed to buy H&E Equipment Services Inc. for $3.4 billion in cash, gaining a fleet of equipment to serve construction and industrial markets.

Country Garden Holdings Co. suffered another record loss in 2023 as one of China’s largest developers continues its lengthy restructuring process after defaulting on its debt.

Key events this week:

Eurozone industrial production, Wednesday

Citigroup, JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs, Bank of New York Mellon, Wells Fargo and BlackRock earnings, Wednesday

US CPI, Empire manufacturing, Wednesday

Fed’s John Williams, Tom Barkin, Austan Goolsbee and Neel Kashkari speak, Wednesday

TSMC earnings, Thursday

ECB releases account of December policy meeting, Thursday

Bank of America, Morgan Stanley earnings, Thursday

US initial jobless claims, retail sales, import prices, Thursday

China GDP, property prices, retail sales, industrial production, Friday

Eurozone CPI, Friday

US housing starts, industrial production, Friday

Some of the main moves in markets:

Stocks

The S&P 500 fell 0.4% as of 11:46 a.m. New York time

The Nasdaq 100 fell 0.4%

The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 0.2%

The Stoxx Europe 600 was little changed

The MSCI World Index fell 0.1%

Bloomberg Magnificent 7 Total Return Index fell 0.8%

The Russell 2000 Index rose 0.3%

Currencies

The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index fell 0.4%

The euro rose 0.4% to $1.0287

The British pound fell 0.2% to $1.2179

The Japanese yen fell 0.3% to 157.96 per dollar

Cryptocurrencies

Bitcoin rose 1.3% to $95,360.25

Ether rose 2.1% to $3,180.49

Bonds

The yield on 10-year Treasuries advanced one basis point to 4.79%

Germany’s 10-year yield advanced three basis points to 2.65%

Britain’s 10-year yield was little changed at 4.89%

Commodities

West Texas Intermediate crude fell 1.6% to $77.53 a barrel

Spot gold rose 0.3% to $2,672.32 an ounce

This story was produced with the assistance of Bloomberg Automation.

--With assistance from Sujata Rao, Julien Ponthus, Margaryta Kirakosian and Aya Wagatsuma.

Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek

# Apple price move, bitcoin vs. equities, oil surges: Market trends

Markets and Data Editor Jared Blikre joins Josh Lipton on Asking for a Trend to break down the market trends of the day, including Apple (AAPL) stock price action, bitcoin (BTC-USD) syncing with equities, and oil prices (CL=F, BZ=F) surging.

To watch more expert insights and analysis on the latest market action, check out more Asking for a Trend here.

This post was written by Naomi Buchanan.

# Magnificent Seven Stocks: Nvidia Reverses Lower; Tesla Rallies, Meta Slides

Chicago, IL – January 14, 2025 – Today, Zacks Investment Ideas feature highlights Constellation Energy CEG, Microsoft MSFT, Nvidia NVDA and Meta META.

Why Constellation Energy Is a Top AI & Nuclear Stock to Buy for 2025
Nuclear energy powerhouse Constellation Energy soared 25% on Friday to all-time highs after announcing its acquisition of natural gas and geothermal giant Calpine.

The deal creates the nation’s largest clean energy company and further cements Constellation Energy’s status as one of the best long-term investments in the future of energy and artificial intelligence.

Constellation is a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). CEG has outclimbed plenty of big tech AI stocks over the past several years including Nvidia, and it looks ready to breakout again to start 2025.

Why Constellation Energy Is a Great Buy-and-Hold Stock
Constellation is the largest U.S. nuclear power plant operator, with over 20 reactors at roughly a dozen sites across the Midwest, the Mid-Atlantic, and the Northeast. CEG has been one of the best S&P 500 stocks over the last several years, skyrocketing 475% in the past three years to outpace Nvidia.

Wall Street dove into Constellation because nuclear energy is poised to play a growing role in the economy, powering the energy-hungry AI age as the country attempts to shutter more coal plants.

Constellation benefits from the U.S. government’s newfound support of nuclear power, as the world’s largest economy aims to triple its nuclear energy capacity by 2050. Nuclear energy vaulted to the top of the clean energy mix because it provides baseload power that’s 2.5X to 3.5X times more dependable than wind and solar.

Nuclear was by far the most significant domestic source of clean energy in 2024. Nuclear has also supplied roughly 20% of U.S. electricity every year since 1990. China, India, and others are all-in on nuclear energy to power their growing economies that are also attempting to become more energy independent.

Constellation benefits from the U.S. government’s direct support of nuclear power. CEG boosted its dividend by 25% in 2024, exceeding its 10% annual growth target and Constellation improved its balance sheet.

Constellation is retrofitting its current nuclear power plants to keep them running for longer, reopening decommissioned plans, and exploring next-gen technologies.

The company in November forecasted “visible, double-digit long-term base EPS growth backed by the Nuclear Production Tax Credit.” CEG is projected to grow its earnings by 66% in 2024 and 10% in 2025.


